README.md, before:

# ![ubuntu](https://assets.ubuntu.com/v1/9f61b97f-logo-ubuntu.svg "Ubuntu").com codebase

[![Code coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com)
[![Cypress checks](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/workflows/Cypress%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Cypress+checks%22)
[![Cypress checks / main](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/workflows/Cypress%20main%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/actions/workflows/cypress-main.yaml?query=workflow%3A%22Cypress+checks%22)

Ubuntu is an open source software operating system that runs from the desktop, to the cloud, to all your internet connected things. [Ubuntu.com](https://ubuntu.com) is the website that helps people learn about, download and get started with Ubuntu. This repo is the codebase and content for the [ubuntu.com](https://ubuntu.com) website.

The site is largely maintained by the [Web and Design team](https://ubuntu.com/blog/topics/design) at [Canonical](https://www.canonical.com). It is a simple, database-less, informational website project based on [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) and hosted on a [Charmed Kubernetes](https://ubuntu.com/kubernetes) cluster.

You can read more about the application's architecture [in ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md).

## Bugs and issues

If you have found a bug on the site or have an idea for a new feature, feel free to [create a new issue](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/issues/new), or suggest a fix by [creating a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/). You can also find a link to create issues in the footer of every page of the site itself.

If you have found a bug in the Ubuntu OS itself, please file it [here](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/).

## Local development

The simplest way to run the site locally is using the [`dotrun`](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/dotrun/) snap. Please use the installation scripts [mentioned in the README](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/dotrun/blob/main/README.md#installation) to install `dotrun`.

Once it's installed, run the project with:

```bash
dotrun
```

Once the server has started, you can visit <http://127.0.0.1:8001> in your browser.

# Deploy

You can find the deployment config in the deploy folder.

## License

The content of this project is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/), and the underlying code used to format and display that content is licensed under the [LGPLv3](http://opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.html) by [Canonical Ltd](http://www.canonical.com/).

With ♥ from Canonical

Commit message:

add to README steps to fix Chromium related error on Mac machines when running dotrun

README.md, after:

# ![ubuntu](https://assets.ubuntu.com/v1/9f61b97f-logo-ubuntu.svg "Ubuntu").com codebase

[![Code coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com)
[![Cypress checks](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/workflows/Cypress%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Cypress+checks%22)
[![Cypress checks / main](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/workflows/Cypress%20main%20checks/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/actions/workflows/cypress-main.yaml?query=workflow%3A%22Cypress+checks%22)

Ubuntu is an open source software operating system that runs from the desktop, to the cloud, to all your internet connected things. [Ubuntu.com](https://ubuntu.com) is the website that helps people learn about, download and get started with Ubuntu. This repo is the codebase and content for the [ubuntu.com](https://ubuntu.com) website.

The site is largely maintained by the [Web and Design team](https://ubuntu.com/blog/topics/design) at [Canonical](https://www.canonical.com). It is a simple, database-less, informational website project based on [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) and hosted on a [Charmed Kubernetes](https://ubuntu.com/kubernetes) cluster.

You can read more about the application's architecture [in ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md).

## Bugs and issues

If you have found a bug on the site or have an idea for a new feature, feel free to [create a new issue](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com/issues/new), or suggest a fix by [creating a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/). You can also find a link to create issues in the footer of every page of the site itself.

If you have found a bug in the Ubuntu OS itself, please file it [here](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/).

## Local development

The simplest way to run the site locally is using the [`dotrun`](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/dotrun/) snap. Please use the installation scripts [mentioned in the README](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/dotrun/blob/main/README.md#installation) to install `dotrun`.

Once it's installed, run the project with:

```bash
dotrun
```

For Mac users, in case running `dotrun` returns an error related to Chromium, add the following line to your local `.env.local` file (create one if you don't have it):

```
PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD=true
```

Once the server has started, you can visit <http://127.0.0.1:8001> in your browser.

# Deploy

You can find the deployment config in the deploy folder.

## License

The content of this project is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/), and the underlying code used to format and display that content is licensed under the [LGPLv3](http://opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.html) by [Canonical Ltd](http://www.canonical.com/).

With ♥ from Canonical
