---
wrapper_template: templates/docs/markdown.html
markdown_includes:
  nav: kubernetes/docs/shared/_side-navigation.md
context:
  title: 1.29 Release notes
  description: Release notes for Charmed Kubernetes
keywords: kubernetes, release, notes
tags:
  - news
sidebar: k8smain-sidebar
permalink: 1.29/release-notes.html
layout:
  - base
  - ubuntu-com
toc: false

---

# 1.29

### February 12, 2024 - `charmed-kubernetes --channel 1.29/stable`

The release bundle can also be [downloaded here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/charmed-kubernetes/bundle/main/releases/1.29/bundle.yaml).

## What's new

### Charmed Operator Framework (Ops)

We're pleased to announce the completion of the Charmed Kubernetes refactor that began
last year. Core charms have moved from the `reactive` and `pod-spec` styles to the `ops`
framework. This shift aims to enable access to common charm libraries, gain better Juju support,
and provide a more consistent charming experience for community engagement.

### Out of the box monitoring enhancements

The Canonical Observability Stack (COS) gathers, processes, visualises and alerts on
telemetry signals generated by workloads running both within and outside of Juju. COS
provides an out of the box observability suite relying on the best-in-class open-source
observability tools.

This release expands our COS integration so that it includes rich monitoring for the
control plane and worker node components of Charmed Kubernetes.

### Ceph CSI

Ceph CSI resource management has been decoupled from the `kubernetes-control-plane`
charm. All new deployments should leverage the [ceph-csi][] charm for Ceph storage
provisioning, including support for CephFS. See the [updated documentation][ceph] for
details on deploying Charmed Kubernetes with Ceph support.

### OpenStack integration

OpenStack capabilities (including cinder storage and cloud provider) have been decoupled
from the `kubernetes-control-plane` charm. All new deployments should leverage the new
`openstack-integrator`, `openstack-controller-manager`, and `cinder-csi` charms. See the
[updated documentation][openstack] for more details.

### NVIDIA GPU Operator

The new [nvidia-gpu-operator][] charm simplifies the management of NVIDIA GPU resources
in a Kubernetes cluster. See the [updated documentation][gpu-workers] for details on
deploying Charmed Kubernetes with GPU workers.

### LXD deployment

Updated recommendations for deploying Charmed Kubernetes in a LXD environment are now
available. See the [local install documentation][install-local] for details.

### Manual cloud deployment

Guidelines for deploying Charmed Kubernetes to pre-existing machines are now available.
See the [manual cloud documentation][install-existing] for details.

### Container networking enhancements

#### Kube-OVN 1.12

Charmed Kubernetes continues its commitment to advanced container networking with
support for the Kube-OVN CNI. This release includes a Kube-OVN upgrade to v1.12. You can
find more information about features and fixes in the upstream release notes.

#### Tigera Calico Enterprise

The `calico-enterprise` charm debuts as a new container networking option for Charmed
Kubernetes in this release. This charm brings advanced Calico networking/network policy
support and is offered as an alternative to the default Calico CNI.

## Fixes

All bug fixes and other feature updates in this release can be found at
[the launchpad milestone page for 1.29](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.29).

<a id='notes-issues'> </a>

## Notes and Known Issues

### Integration gaps

While Charmed Kubernetes core charms have been rewritten in the `ops` framework, some
integrations with other charms in the Juju ecosystem are not available in this release.
If your deployment depends on the following, we recommend remaining on Charmed Kubernetes
1.28 until compatible support is provided in a subsequent release:

- AWS IAM authentication: [aws-iam](https://charmhub.io/aws-iam)
- Keystone authentication: [keystone](https://charmhub.io/keystone)
- Vault storage: [vault](https://charmhub.io/vault)

### Cloud integrators

Direct integration between `[aws|azure|gcp|openstack]-integrator` charms and
`kubernetes-control-plane` has been removed in this release. The recommended method for
enabling native cloud features is to use the respective out-of-tree cloud provider
charms. See the cloud-specific documentation for details.

### Bugs

A list of known bugs scheduled to be fixed in the first maintenance release can be found
on the [1.29+ck1 milestone page](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.29+ck1).

## Deprecations and API changes

- Upstream

For details of other deprecation notices and API changes for Kubernetes 1.29, please see the
relevant sections of the [upstream release notes][upstream-changelog-1.29].

[upstream-changelog-1.29]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.29.md#deprecation

<!-- AUTOGENERATED RELEASE 1.29 ABOVE -->


<!--LINKS-->

[rel]: /kubernetes/docs/release-notes
[ceph-csi]: https://charmhub.io/ceph-csi?channel=1.29/stable
[ceph]: /kubernetes/docs/ceph
[openstack]: /kubernetes/openstack-integration
[nvidia-gpu-operator]: https://charmhub.io/nvidia-gpu-operator?channel=1.29/stable
[gpu-workers]: /kubernetes/docs/gpu-workers
[install-local]: /kubernetes/docs/install-local
[install-existing]: /kubernetes/docs/install-existing
