
---
wrapper_template: "templates/docs/markdown.html"
markdown_includes:
  nav: "kubernetes/docs/shared/_side-navigation.md"
context:
  title: "1.26 Release notes"
  description: Release notes for Charmed Kubernetes
keywords: kubernetes, release, notes
tags: [news]
sidebar: k8smain-sidebar
permalink: 1.26/release-notes.html
layout: [base, ubuntu-com]
toc: False
---

## 1.26

### December ??, 2022 - `charmed-kubernetes --channel 1.26/stable` 

The release bundle can also be [downloaded here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/charmed-kubernetes/bundle/main/releases/1.26/bundle.yaml).

## What's new

- Ubuntu 22.04 default series

Ubuntu 22.04 is now the default series for new deployments of Charmed
Kubernetes.

Ubuntu 20.04 remains fully supported, but is no longer the default series.

Ubuntu 18.04 is no longer supported. For existing clusters still running Ubuntu
18.04, it is recommended to perform a series upgrade to Ubuntu 20.04 before
upgrading to Charmed Kubernetes 1.26.

- Kube-OVN BGP support

The Kube-OVN charm's new `bgp-speakers` config option makes it possible to peer
Kubernetes nodes with external BGP routers and exchange routing information for
Kube-OVN subnets. This makes it possible to access pod IPs directly from
external networks.

- Kube-OVN traffic mirroring

The new `enable-global-mirror` and `mirror-iface` config options make it
possible to configure traffic mirroring for Kube-OVN. When configured, Kube-OVN
will mirror pod network traffic to a network interface on each Kubernetes node,
making it easier to observe pod network traffic with tools such as tcpdump.

- MetalLB enhancements

The metallb-controller and metallb-speaker charms have been upgraded to
v0.12 and can now run on amd64, arm, arm64, ppc64le, and s390x hosts.

## Component Versions

### Charm/Addons pinned versions
- kube-ovn 1.10.4
- calico 3.21.4
- cephcsi 3.7.2
- cinder-csi-plugin 1.25.3
- coredns 1.9.4
- ingress-nginx 1.2.0
- k8s-keystone-auth 1.25.3
- kube-state-metrics 2.6.0
- kubernetes-dashboard 2.7.0
- openstack-cloud-controller-manager 1.25.3

### Charm default versions
- cloud-provider-vsphere 1.24
- vsphere-csi-driver 2.6.0
- cloud-provider-azure 1.25.0
- azuredisk-csi-driver 1.23.0
 
## Fixes

A list of bug fixes and other minor feature updates in this release can be found at
[the launchpad milestone page for 1.26](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.26).


## Notes and Known Issues

A list of issues to be fixed in the first 1.26 maintenance release can be found at
[the launchpad milestone page for 1.26+ck1](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.26+ck1).

* [LP1999427](https://launchpad.net/bugs/1999427)
  Charm errors during update-status hook with 502 Gateway Error

  The charm's status may appear like this:
  ```
    aws-k8s-storage/0*         error        idle                54.80.73.214                    hook failed: "update-status"
  ```

  When the affected charms (see bug link above) are deployed on a cloud with a `kube-api-loadbalancer`, the load-balancer
  can respond to client requests with a 502 Gateway Error, amongst other error statuses not produced
  by the API server itself.  The charm's Kubernetes client library raises an unhandled exception in
  this case. This results is the charm being in an error state which is easily resolved by running

  ```bash
  juju resolve <charm/unit>
  ```

## Deprecations and API changes

- Upstream

For details of other deprecation notices and API changes for Kubernetes 1.26, please see the
relevant sections of the [upstream release notes][upstream-changelog-1.26].

[upstream-changelog-1.26]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.26.md#deprecation

<!-- AUTOGENERATED RELEASE 1.26 ABOVE -->

<!--LINKS-->
[rel]: /kubernetes/docs/release-notes
